Now if you want to use tracking technology you need to buy the right switches.
So essentially you need to buy the right product for the feature that you want.
As mentioned Cisco have supported stacking for a long time such as such as the 30 750 have supported
stock wise for many years.
Yes some examples flex stock was introduced in 2010 flex stock plus was introduced in 2013.
The switches that support flex stock all the 29 60 s and 29 60 x 4 flex stack plus you need a 20 960
X or 29 60 x are the speed of a single stock link in both directions using full duplex is 10 gigabits
per second for Flex stack and 20 gigabits per second for Flex stack plus the maximum number of switches
supported in one stack is four for Flex stack and eight for Flex stack plus in the real world.
Have a look on the Cisco documentation and the data sheets for any switch that you want to buy to ensure
that it supports the speeds and capabilities that you need.
Now chassis aggregation is another Cisco technology which allows you to make multiple switches operate
as a single switch from a big picture perspective.
In a lot of cases such stacking is used after the access layer whereas chassis aggregation is used for
more powerful switches used in the distribution and core layers.
So in summary chassis aggregation is used for high end switches.
As an example chassis based switches used in the distribution and core layers of campus networks.
It does not require special hardware adapters but rather uses ethernet interfaces on switches it typically
aggregates only two switches.
It's more complex to configure but provides more options now from a big picture point of view chassis
aggregation is the same as switch stacking multiple switches act as one switch which gives you both
availability and design advantages.
However one of the big reasons for chassis based aggregation is high availability designs technology
such as Cisco virtual switching system or VNS is supported on the Cisco sixty five hundred and sixty
eight hundred series switches.
Have a look on Cisco's website for more details but he has a quick overview.
Now even if you're not using chassis aggregation you need high availability in the core and distribution
layer of your network as discussed.
One of the reasons for having multiple switches in the distribution or core layer is to provide redundancy
in case one of those switches goes down.
So we use technology such as H.S. IP spanning tree and others to provide better redundancy and better
scalability.
However the downside is cost.
You need additional switches and it's also more complex to configure.
You need to think about where you put your spending tree roots as well as your HS IP active Rodders.
Now chassis based switch typically has multiple line cords one or more supervisor modules and one or
more power supplies.
For redundancy you want redundant power supplies you want redundant supervisors and you want multiple
line cords in your chassis.
The idea with supervisor modules is if one of the supervisors goes down the other one can take over
the management of the switch a supervisor module is essentially the brain for the chassis based switch.
If you lose your supervisor the switch will have no brain hence you have redundant supervisor modules
in your switch.
You have redundant power supplies in case there's a problem with one of the power suppliers and in addition
you'll have multiple connections from your access layer to multiple line cards using link aggregation
to ensure that if one of the line cards goes down the network can continue functioning using the redundant
line card and with the chassis based aggregation.
What we're doing is taking multiple chassis based switches and using either related to a lay through
ether channel between multiple chassis beats switches to provide better redundancy and better throughput
to the distribution core of the network.
I've discussed that and a lot of detail in the campus videos that make up this course.
What we can do is take that a step further and instead of using link aggregation between the chassis
based switches with spanning tree and HS or P we make the chassis based switches appear to be a single
switch in the model on the left the two switches are independent of one another they run their own Mac
address tables they run their own instance of spending tree.
They essentially act totally independently of one another.
You configure two separate switches in this example and you configure them independently of each other
with an aggregated chassis environment however the switches appear to be one switch to the rest of the
network.
You can have multiple physical ports going to different physical switches but you can aggregate them
together using multi chassis ether channel because logically a one has two physical connections to the
same switch even though physically it's two physical connections two different switches and the different
ways to implement this.
We can use multi chassis ether channel but use an active standby control plane where one of the pairs
acts as the switch for the control plane protocols.
So one of the switches is in control of spending tree VTB ether channel up and running protocols.
But to take advantage of the forwarding power of the supervisor modules on both switches we have active
active data planes.
We're late to forwarding and layer 3 forwarding is done by both switches the switches synchronize their
MAC address tables and running tables to support to this there's a single switch management plane however.
In other words you manage both switches on the active switch when you change the config of the active
switch.
That configuration is synchronized automatically with the standby switch.
Now you could take this a step further where you have an aggregated virtual switch and an aggregated
Access Switch.
Physically we've got two switches in the distribution layer.
But by using chassis aggregation and they appear to be one switch add to the access layer we have four
physical switches but they appear to be a single virtual switch.
And then we can run eight physical ports in a single ether channel between the distribution layer and
access layer.
And in that case we don't need spanning tree because even though physically we have six switches virtually
we only have two switches with one virtual cable between them.
As always there are caveats and things to be aware of when doing this but that's the ultimate vision
of Link Aggregation with chassis aggregation and switch stacking.
You're aggregating your physical distribution switches into one virtual switch and you are stacking
your access layer switches into one virtual switch.
The simplifies the network because you don't have to worry about optimizing spanning tree and optimizing
H.S. IP.
There's no need for HAARP because we have one virtual aggregated switch.
We would still run spending tree in case there are problems.
But from a spending tree point of view both of these ports are falling because there's only one logical
cable between the two switches.
It really simplifies the management and configuration of a campus network.
So in summary stacking technologies and chassis aggregation technologies allow you to simplify the management
and configuration as well as the forwarding of traffic in an Ethernet network.